---
layout: post
title: ECG to Identify Individuals (from data to deployment)
description: A new biometric
image: assets/images/1*yVNIt0fqLYeFpjFbWqtqsw.png
---

The amount of data each individual produces today is mind-boggling. In fact, in the past 2–3 years, we have generated around 90% of the total world data. Surprising? But this ain’t enough. In the age of Big Data and IoT, this is going to increase manifold in the coming years.

One of the biggest downsides that come with this data explosion is its security. According to the Verizon Data Breach Investigations Report,
> over 70% of employees reuse passwords at work. And also, “81% of hacking-related breaches leveraged either stolen and/or weak passwords.

So, What is the solution?

Well, a lot of fingerprints, facial recognition, iris, voice, and even vein recognition technologies are continuing to gain ground, with commercial applications being developed for each. We can say that it’s the future for biometric authentication systems. They remove the burden of remembering long passwords or pins and instead uses the inherent traits of individuals which are hard to replicate, but not impossible.

Fingerprints can be fooled from gel or latex fingers, faceID can be cracked from photographs and iris scanners can be falsified by contact lenses. Well, nothing is secured if you look in that way. Let’s try something new, What about ECG?

ECG depends on the anatomy and physiology of the heart which can vary with age, gender and myriad of other factors and it doesn’t change over time for an individual, not even when the heart beats increase or decrease. In this article, I will describe how ECG signals can be used as a biometric to identify individuals. [Read More](https://medium.com/intel-software-innovators/ecg-to-identify-individuals-from-data-to-deployment-74cce404f9f0)
