---
layout: post
title: Ship Detection in Satellite Images from Scratch
description: 
image: assets/images/1*nyILrq0KnC2YRUvVhqY44A.png
---

Object detection is a technology related to computer vision and image processing for detecting various kinds of semantic objects: like cars, trees, person, and so on, from images or video frames. Their application can be found in self-driving cars, video surveillance, object tracking, image retrieval, medical imaging systems, etc. With the traditional image processing methods, researchers had a tough time devising and generalizing the algorithm for various use-cases and that too with reasonable accuracy. While contemporary Deep Learning algorithms have made this task a child’s play. With Object Detection apps on Play store, Nvidia’s Digits framework and a plethora of online tutorials, one can build and use this application with ease.

Satellite images, on the other hand, are becoming an amazing source of contextual information for many industries. They are made of millions of pixels with a variety of ground resolutions ranging from 30cm to 30m. The ground resolution of the images determines the size of the objects that can be detected with them. Images can be multi-spectral, and different spectral bands show different visibility behavior in function of weather events (such as clouds or storms), or simply the time of the day. Application of satellite images can be seen in land cover change detection, monitoring natural calamities like floods and fires, or object detection like buildings, constructions, lakes, and vehicles.

In this tutorial, I would be talking about how to build your object detection algorithm from scratch, which will work on satellite imagery. For this, I would like you to have a little knowledge about Deep Learning, Python, and some terminal commands, that’s all you require. We’ll be using YOLO, an accurate and fast deep learning algorithm for object detection given by Joseph Redmon et al. And with their latest version YOLOv3, the accuracy has been further enhanced. So here we go.
[Read More](https://medium.com/intel-software-innovators/ship-detection-in-satellite-images-from-scratch-849ccfcc3072)
